So here is our student attendance Java class, which is defined inside the package university.
Importing the necessary packages as Q, swing a w t and a w t event packages.
Then we have defined the classes student attendance, which is extending g frame and implementing action.
Listener There are the seven labels and seven text field which are expected to that labels two buttons
and three choices.
Then we have defined a non parameter as constructor of the student attendance class.
Setting the layout which is off grid layout.
Type X and y will be the location of the.
Loud and.
50 plus 50 will be the size of the layout.
Then we have defined the choice.
Inside the choice we have initialize the connection with the database and then we have executed the
query select aspect from a student while are stored next.
So this will iterate over the record, over the student table and add every student roll number to the
choice or instance data.
Then we have created a label as a roll number and added to it our choice.
Added Joyce to the frame and added the label to the frame.
Then we created a label for staff, created the choice.
Three searches will be there for the attendance for staff, either present, absent or on leave.
So that will mean first up, similarly adding those label and choice to the frame.
Then we have added label of second half choice for the second half label present, absent or leave.
Then we have added those label and choice to the frame.
After that there is a button.
Be one submit foreground colour and background colour for it.
Similarly, for the button, cancel background and formula for it.
Adding those buttons.
Adding action listener to those buttons.
Setting the background colour of the window as white.
Setting the visibility as true size of the window and location of the window.
Then inside the public void action performed.
If the source of the button is a source of dependence from one button, then we will first restore inside
the string.
If the selected item from first choice instead a string as selected item item from second of choice
and inside data.
The details of the student by using new java dot utility date dot to string that will restore the date.
A string, I'd say to get selected item from the selected item of roll number that will store initializing
the query to insert into the attendance student table respective values inside the block.
Initializing the connection and executing the query.
Q are way stored in the string showing the panel dialog box as attendance confirmed.
Visibility of the current window as false catalog will handle an exception if occurs.
And else if the source of the baton is from me too, then we will set the visibility of the current
windows as false.
Inside the main function we have created the instance of the new student attendance class.
Let's move on to our teacher attendance Java file.
So this will restore the attendance of the teacher.
So this is defined inside the package university school.
If we have imported the package.
Autodesk Java Export Swing Java AWP, Java JWT event.
After that, we have defined our class, which is extending frame and implementing Excel listener.
There are seven labels similarly like the student tables, seven text field, two buttons and three
choices.
Inside the non parameter constructor of the teacher attendance, we have first defined the layout of
the grid layout.
Then define the C2 choice which choice will store, employ IDs from the table teacher and after that
we have added the label teacher ID and added the choice to our frame.
Then we have defined the label.
First stop initialize the choice added inside the choice we have added, present, absent and leave.
Then we have added the label and choice to our fame.
After that, we have initialized another label as second of choice for the second of present.
Absent or leave.
Then we have added.
Label and second off choice to our DJ frame.
After that there is a button be one submit background color as black for one color as white another
button as cancel.
Background color is black for one color as white.
And then we have defined had to be one button and add way to button adding action listener to both of
the buttons.
We went in to setting the background color of the complete window as white visibility as to setting
the sizes for and across for 50 locations, 600 comma, 200 inside the action performed event.
If the event is from the source of the event is from V1.
Then we will restore the selected item attendance from the first half in F.
Strong second half choice in history as the date in string d d the ID selected from the C to choice
in ID and create the query.
Insert into attendance.
Insert into attendance teacher table by values passing those values into it inside the drive log.
Initializing the connection.
Then we will updating the query by passing the string q y into the executable data statement which will
be executed by using the statement instance and.
Connection and start of the class con which we have just created.
Then we have displayed the dialogue box that attendance confirmed and setting the visibility of the
current window.
As for the cans block will handle and the exception if occurs.
As the source of the baton is from me too.
That is the cancel button.
So that will just close this window.
So setting the visibility of the current instance of the class as false inside the main function, we
have just created an instance of the teacher in this class.
So let's move to the where the last.
Class of this video that is student attendance details.
So this class is also.
Define inside the package university.
We have imported Java dot as well to connect with the database java searching to provide a graphical
user interface.
Java, Abstract Window Toolkit and Abstract Toolkit event to handle events on our this window, then
public classes to then add attendance details which is extending the frame.
Implementing Action Listener.
Then there is a table one.
J button b one and a string edge.
That is a roll number.
It all the string that is roll number, date time, first up and second up.
Then there is a two dimensional array or.
Office strength 15 plus four.
IMJ will be used to iterate over these.
Two dimensionality.
Now we have defined a non constricted view student attendance size 18 Red Cross 300 location as 415
common 150.
And then we have.
Inside a dry block for the string.
Q We have select extract from a student, extract from attendance student.
This will select the attend all the record from the attendance student.
Initializing the connection, executing the query, which we have stored in our string.
Q Iterating over the record of the attendance student table.
Distorting the respective details of every role in our two dimensional array.
Incrementing the AI variable every time in my loop and initializing the JS course to zero whenever the
loop will execute or iterate again.
Initializing the table by passing the two dimensional array in the column area.
BLOCK will handle any exception.
If, of course.
And.
Inside the be one button.
We have defined the button one which is print and add b1 comma south.
So button will be added to the respective place.
A scroll panel adding the scroll panel to the window, adding action listener to the button.
So if the print button has been pressed, then we will call g1 print.
Okay.
So it will call G or print cash the exception if an exception occurs.
So inside.
A static admin method.
We have called the student attendance detail.
Setting the visibility as true.
So in this video we have learned about the student attendance, how we will be storing the student attendance,
teacher attendance, and how we'll be showing or viewing the student attendance, how we can see the
student attendance details.
So let's have a look run of these three classes.
I'll be running first login.
Validating details.
Logan.
This is the result of project class.
Then inside the attendance, first student attendance.
Click on this.
So this is the Windows student in attendance.
Here it will show you the roll number.
So as we have not had any student, so it is not showing the roll number you can select first up, either
present, absent or leave.
Similarly for the second half, either present absent of leave.
And if I click on submit.
So it's showing attendance confirmed.
Then for the teacher.
Then similarly we can add for the teacher, Dennis as well.
And let's click on Cancel.
And attendance detail.
We can check student attendance detail.
So this is data on student attendance detail.
We have not added the roll number and we have just click on submit.
So it has added the detail without the roll number.
So this is the.
This is how we can have a look on the struggling attendance detail similarly for the teacher attendance
details.
But we will be looking at the teacher attendance class and implementation and line by line explanation
of the teacher attendance detail class in our next video and two more classes.